.\" beagrepd(1) manpage
.\" 
.\" Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Novell, Inc.
.\" Copyright (C) 2007 Debajyoti Bera
.\" 
.TH "BEAGREP" "1" "November 2007" "beagrep" "Linux User's Manual"
.SH "NAME"
beagrepd \- the Beagrep desktop search daemon
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B beagrepd
[\fIoptions\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
.BR beagrepd,
the Beagrep daemon, is the heart of Beagrep, a system for searching and managing
your personal information space.  The Beagrep daemon should normally be started
as part of user's desktop startup process.
.PP 
Running
.BR beagrepd
by hand is of use for those wishing to customize the Beagrep daemon's execution
via command\-line options, developers testing Beagrep, or those who use Beagrep
only infrequently.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
.B \-\-foreground|\-\-fg
If specified, execute the Beagrep daemon in the foreground.
.TP 
.B \-\-background|\-\-bg
If specified, execute the Beagrep daemon in the background (default).
.TP 
.B \-\-replace
If specified, the daemon tries to shutdown and replace any other Beagrep daemon
already running.
.TP 
.B \-\-backend           
Configure which backends to use.  
.TP 
.B 	\-\-backend <name>    
	Only start backend 'name'
.TP 
.B 	\-\-backend +<name>
	Additionally start backend 'name'	
.TP 
.B 	\-\-backend \-<name>
	Disable backend 'name'	
.TP 
.B \-\-list\-backends
Retrieve a list of all known backends. This list of backends can then be
used with with the \-\-allow/deny\-backend options. Using this argument will
print out the list of backends and then exit.
.TP 
.B \-\-add\-static\-backend
Add a static backend by path.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version of daemon, Mono, and Sqlite.
.SH "ADVANCE OPTIONS"
.BR These
options are mainly for debugging and fine\-tuning execution and
are thus not required for standard use.
.TP 
.B \-\-debug
Enable extensive logging suited for general debugging purposes.
.TP 
.B \-\-debug\-memory
Enable mono debugging suited for extensive debugging purposes.
.TP 
.B \-\-indexing\-test\-mode
 Run in foreground, and exit when fully indexed.
.TP 
.B \-\-indexing\-delay 
Time to wait before indexing.  (Default 60 seconds)
.TP 
.B \-\-disable\-scheduler
Disable the internal scheduler and thus refrain the Beagrep daemon from
performing any crawling or indexing. Search facilities will remain enabled.
.TP 
.B \-\-disable\-text-cache
Dont't cache text content of the indexed data. This option only affects
data that is indexed in the current session of beagrepd.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Novell, Inc.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to http://bugzilla.gnome.org
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \(co 2005-2007 Novell, Inc.
.sp
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR beagrep\-query (1),
.BR beagrep\-status (1),
.BR beagrep\-shutdown (1),
