.TH html2xhtml 1 ""
.SH NAME
html2xhtml \- Converts HTML files to XHTML
.SH SYNTAX 

.B html2xhtml
[
.I filename
] [
.I options
] 

.SH DESCRIPTION

Html2xhtml is a command-line tool that converts HTML files to
XHTML files. The path of the HTML input file can be provided
as a command-line argument. If not, it is read from stdin.
.PP
Xhtml2xhtml tries always to generate valid XHTML files.
It is able to correct many common errors in input HTML
files without loose of information. However, for some errors, html2xhtml
may decide to loose some information in order to generate a valid XHTML output.
This can be avoided with the 
.I -e 
option, which allows html2xhtml to
generate non-valid output in these cases.
.PP
Html2xhtml can generate the XHTML output compliant to one of
the following document types:
XHTML 1.0 (Transitional, Strict and Frameset), XHTML 1.1,
XHTML Basic and XHTML Mobile Profile. 
.SH OPTIONS
.if n .ta 2.8i
.if t .ta 2.1i

The command line options/arguments are:
.IP \fBfilename\fR 20
Read the HTML input from
.I filename
(optional argument). If this argument is not provided, 
the HTML input is read from standard input.
.IP \fB-o\ \fIfilename\fR 20
Output XHTML file. The file is overwritten if it
exists. If not provided, the output is written to
standard output.
.IP \fB-e\fR 20
Instructs the program to propagate input chunks to 
the output even if it is unable to adapt them to
the output XHTML doctype. Using this option, 
the XHTML output may be non-valid. Not using this
option, some input data could be removed from the
output in some [rare] cases.
.IP \fB-t\ \fIoutput-doctype\fR 20
Doctype of the output XHTML file. If not specified,
the program selects automatically either 
XHTML 1.0 Transitional or XHTML 1.0 Frameset 
depending on the input. Current available
doctypes are:
.br
 o \fItransitional\fR
XHTML 1.0 Transitional
.br
 o \fIframeset\fR
XHTML 1.0 Frameset
.br 
 o \fIstrict\fR
XHTML 1.0 Strict
.br 
 o \fI1.1\fR
XHTML 1.1
.br 
 o \fIbasic-1.0\fR
XHTML Basic 1.0
.br 
 o \fIbasic-1.1\fR
XHTML Basic 1.1
.br 
 o \fImp\fR
XHTML Mobile Profile
 o \fIprint-1.0\fR
XHTML Print 1.0
.br 
.IP \fB--ics\ \fIinput_charset\fR 20
Character set of the input document. This option overrides the
default input character set detection mechanism.
.IP \fB--ocs\ \fIoutput_charset\fR 20
Character set for the output XHTML document. If this option is not
present, the character set of the input is used as default.
.IP \fB--lcs\fR 20
Dump the list of available character set aliases and exit html2xhtml.
No conversion is performed when this option is present.
.IP \fB-l\ \fIline_length\fR 20
Number of characters per line. The default value is 80.
It must be greater or equal to 40, otherwise the 
parameter is ignored.
.IP \fB-b\ \fItab_length\fR 20
Tab length in number of characters. It must be a number
between 0 and 16, otherwise the parameter is ignored.
Use 0 to avoid indentation in the output.
.IP \fB--preserve-space-comments\fR 20
Use this option to preserve white spaces, tabs and 
ends of lines in HTML comments. The default, if not 
provided, is to rearrange spacing.
.IP \fB--no-protect-cdata\fR 20
Enclose CDATA sections in "script" and "style" following
the XHTML 1.0 specification (using "<!CDATA[[" and
"]]>"). It might be incompatible with some browsers.
The default in this version is to enclose CDATA sections
using "//<!CDATA[[" and "//]]>", because major browsers
handle it properly. 
.IP \fB--compact-block-elements\fR 20
No white spaces or line breaks are written between  
the start tag of a block element and the start tag 
of its first enclosed inline element (or character 
data) and between the end tag of its last enclosed 
inline element (or character data) and the end tag 
of the block element. By default, if this option is
not set, a new line character and indentation is
written between them.
.IP \fB--compact-empty-elm-tags\fR 20
Do not write a whitespace before the slash for empty element
tags (i.e. write "<br/>" instead of the default "<br />").
Note that although both notations are correct in XML,
the XHTML 1.0 standard recommends the latter to improve
compatibility with old browsers.
.IP \fB--empty-elm-tags-always\fR 20
By default, empty element tags are written only for
elements declared as empty in the DTD. This option
makes any element not having content to be written
with the empty element tag, even if it is not declared
as empty in the DTD. This option may cause problems
when the XHTML document is opened by browsers in
HTML (tag soup) mode.
.IP \fB--dos-eol\fR 20
Write the output XHTML file with DOS--style (CRLF) end of line,
instead of the default UNIX--style end of line.
Both end of line styles are allowed by the XML recommendation.
.IP \fB--generate-snippet\fR 20
Treat the input as an HTML fragment instead of
a full document.
The output will also be a snippet and will not contain either the XML
and doctype declarations or the html, head and body elements.
.IP \fB--help\fR 20
Show a brief help message and exit.
.IP \fB--version\fR 20
Show the version number and exit.

.SH NOTE ON CHARACTER SETS

Since version 1.1.2, html2xhtml is able to parse and write
HTML and XHTML documents using the most popular character sets / encodings.
It is also able to read the input document using a given
character set and generate an output that uses a different
character set. The iconv implementation in the GNU C library
is used with that purpose.
.PP
Any IANA-registered character set that is supported by the
iconv library may be used. When naming a character set, any
IANA--approved alias for it may be used. The full list of
aliases recognised by html2xhtml can be obtained with the
\fB--lcs\fR command-line option.
.PP
If the character set of the input document is not specified,
html2xhtml tries to guess it automatically.
If the character set of the output document is not specified,
html2xhtml writes the output using the same character set
as the input document.

.SH NOTE ON END OF LINE CHARACTES

By default, the UNIX-style one-byte end of line is used. It can
be changed to DOS-style CRLF end of line with the
\fB--dos-eol\fR command-line option.
.PP
However, when the program is compiled in the MinGW environment
and the output is sent to standard output, the output is automatically
converted by the environment to CRLF by default. Do not use the
\fB--dos-eol\fR command-line option in that situation.
When the output is sent to a file with the \fB-o\fR command-line
option, the output is as expected (UNIX-style by default), and
the \fB--dos-eol\fR option may be used.

.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
.na 
.nf

Program developer up to current version:
Jesus Arias Fisteus <jaf@it.uc3m.es>
.PP
The first working version of this program has been developed as 
a Master Thesis at the University of Vigo (Spain) [http://www.uvigo.es],
advised by:
.PP
Rebeca Diaz Redondo
Ana Fernandez Vilas
.PP
Copyright 2000-2001 by Jesus Arias Fisteus, Rebeca Diaz Redondo, Ana
Fernandez Vilas.
Copyright 2002-2009 by Jesus Arias Fisteus



