@node The BOKIN Model Definition
@appendixsec The BOKIN Model Definition
@display
Version 1.0, December 17, 2005
Copyright @copyright{} 2005 Tama Communications Corporation

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
of this document, but changing it is not allowed.
@end display

@unnumberedsubsec Introduction

@dfn{BOKIN Model} is a business model to obtain proceeds by widely collecting
donations while developing and distributing free software.
This model is constructed not to take away consumer's freedom of software.

The business which comply with the following criteria can be called
@dfn{a business based on BOKIN Model}.

@unnumberedsubsec Criteria

@enumerate
@item CORPORATION@*
The person who start a business based on BOKIN Model must be a business
corporation registered in the home country.
(Herein after called @dfn{the corporation})

@item FREE SOFTWARE@*
The corporation develops free software. (Herein after called @dfn{the BOKINware})

@item LICENSE@*
The corporation distributes the BOKINware under GNU GPL (GNU General Public
License) and GNU FDL (GNU Free Documentation License). Exceptionally,
external packages which the BOKINware uses, small supporting files,
short manuals and rough documentation can use
simple all-permissive license, compatible with GNU GPL.

@item COPYRIGHT MANAGEMENT@*
The corporation manages copyright on the BOKINware for consumers to
keep on using it at ease.

@itemize
@item
Every file in the BOKINware should have a legally valid copyright notice
and a license notice.
@item
To include program which is assigned from another developer, the corporation
receives a disclaimer paper or assignment paper signed by the author.
@item
To include program which is not assigned, the corporation confirms its license
is GNU GPL or compatible with GNU GPL, lists the files and authors in a file
named @file{AUTHORS}, and lists the license in a file named @file{LICENSE}.
The BOKINware should contain these two files.
@end itemize

@item MAILING LIST@*
The corporation maintains mailing lists for consumers to cooperate
one another.

The list members, including the corporation, don't owe any duty.

The mailing lists should include the following two at least.

@itemize
@item Bug mailing list@*
This list distributes, to the active maintainers of the BOKINware,
bug reports and fixes for, and suggestions for improvements in the
BOKINware. This list is also for user discussion.
@item Help mailing list@*
This list is the place for authors, users and installers of the
BOKINware to ask for help.
@end itemize

The mailing lists can be replaced with a similar communication tool.

The corporation can decide the operation policy of the list, but must not
obstruct the list members to cooperate one another.

@item COLLECTING DONATIONS@*
The corporation collects donations widely as its proceeds.

The corporation must not offer the donor an individual supply of profit.

@item DONOR LIST@*
The corporation open the donor list to the public.

The donor list includes the following information.

@itemize
@item
Date of donation (The date when the corporation received the donation)
@item
Amount of donation (Amount which the corporation received)
@item
Donor's name
@item
Donor's nationality
@end itemize

When donor's name and nationality are unknown or the donor prefers to
remain anonymous, they are treated as @dfn{anonymous}.

The BOKINware should contain the donor list as a file named @file{DONORS}.
It is preferable that the list is open to the public even on the Internet.

@item BOKIN MODEL DEFINITION@*
The BOKINware should contain the present definition as a file named
@file{BOKIN_MODEL}.

@end enumerate

@unnumberedsubsec Renewal

The author may publish revised and/or new versions of the BOKIN Model
Definition from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in spirit
to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems
or concerns.
