@node Frequently Asked Questions
@appendixsec Frequently Asked Questions
@display
Version 1.0, December 17, 2005
Copyright @copyright{} 2005 Tama Communications Corporation

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
of this document, but changing it is not allowed.
@end display

@unnumberedsubsec BOKIN Model Frequently Asked Questions

@enumerate
@item What does @dfn{BOKIN} mean?@*
@dfn{BOKIN} means collecting donations in Japanese.
(@dfn{BO}=collect, @dfn{KIN}=money)

@item What is the purpose to require the person who start a BOKIN model business being a registered corporation?@*
The purpose is to prevent people from donating to the person who does not
exist actually.

@item Is annoying copyright management necessary?@*
Yes, it is.
Copyright management is absolutely necessary for consumers
to keep on using the BOKINware at ease.

It is dangerous to use the software whose copyright is not neatly managed.
If you use such software, you might suddenly be prohibited to use it,
or be claimed a license fee of high priced. These are not imaginary fears
but troubles of reality.

@item Why is program license limited to GNU GPL?@*
Because GNU GPL defends consumers in two points.
@itemize
@item Copyleft License@*
Since GNU GPL is copyleft license, it makes a program free,
and requiring all modified and extended versions of the program
to be free as well. As a result, consumer can keep on using the
BOKINware at ease in the future.
@item Widely Known@*
Since GNU GPL is widely known, and is explained frequently,
it does not become the load to consumer. It is troublesome
for consumer to understand new licenses.
@end itemize

@item What is the purpose of the donor list?@*
There are two purposes.
@itemize
@item To defend freedom of donation.@*
The consumer can decide whether to donate after understanding
the situation of the donation.
If nothing being informed, freedom does not exist there.
In BOKIN model, consumers are not isolated existence.
@item To praise donation.@*
To praise donation brings new donors.
Since BOKIN model owes all to people's free wills, we cannot praise
the donation too much.
@end itemize

@item Is donation spent on the BOKINware?@*
It depends on the management of the corporation.
Since donations become the proceeds of the corporation, the corporation
itself decides the usage under its freedom.

@item Is the donor list kept true?@*
It is very difficult to mix lies in the public information, because
it is checked by various methods.

@itemize
@item
Donors can confirm whether they are listed.
@item
People can ask whether to have donated to the donors in the list.
@item
The tax office can examine the contradiction between the content
of the list and the content of the declaration of the corporation's
taxation business.
@end itemize

@item Why is the corporation prohibited from doing an individual supply of profit for the donors?@*
When individual supply of profit becomes ordinary, donation fall into
the payment for the profit. We cannot call it donation.
BOKIN Model business should be supported only by people's free will.

@end enumerate
