\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename global.info
@settitle GNU GLOBAL source code tag system
@comment %**end of header

@include version.texi

@c Define new index for options.
@defcodeindex op
@syncodeindex op cp

@ifinfo
@dircategory Development
@direntry
* GLOBAL: (global).             GNU GLOBAL source code tag system.
@end direntry
@end ifinfo

@ifinfo
This file documents the GNU GLOBAL source code tag system.

Copyright (c) 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2008, 2010
Tama Communications Corporation

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts,
and with no Back-Cover Texts.
A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
Free Documentation License".
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@title GNU GLOBAL Source Code Tag System
@subtitle Edition @value{EDITION}, for GNU GLOBAL version @value{VERSION}
@subtitle @value{UPDATED}
@author by Tama Communications Corporation
@c copyright page
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2008, 2010
Tama Communications Corporation
@sp 2
This manual is for @acronym{GNU} GLOBAL (version @value{VERSION},
@value{UPDATED}), a source code tag system that works the same way
across diverse environments.
@sp 2
Published by Tama Communications Corporation @*
Tama-city, Tokyo, Japan.@*

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts,
and with no Back-Cover Texts.
A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
Free Documentation License".

@end titlepage

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top GNU GLOBAL source code tag system

This manual documents version @value{VERSION} of the GNU GLOBAL source code tag system.

@menu
* Introduction::                        Overview of this tool.
* Global::                              Command line GLOBAL.
* Applications::			Various applications.
* Other topics::                        Other topics.
* Reference::                           Command References.
* Copying This Manual::                 Copying This Manual.
* Business Model::                      Business Model for Free Software.
* Index::                               Option index.
@end menu
@end ifnottex

@c ***************************************************************************
@c Introduction
@c ***************************************************************************
@node Introduction
@chapter Overview of this tool

@section What is GNU GLOBAL?

GNU GLOBAL is a source code tag system that works the same way
across diverse environments such as Emacs editor, Vi editor,
Less viewer, Bash shell, various web browsers, etc.
You can locate specified objects such as functions, macros, structs, classes
in your source files and move there easily.
It is useful for hacking large projects which contain many sub-directories,
many @code{#ifdef} and many @code{main()} functions.
It is similar to ctags or etags, but is different from them at the point of
independence of any editor.

@section Concept of project

GNU GLOBAL can treat a source tree containing sub-directories as a project.
Anywhere in the project, you can utilize high performance tag database.
You need not specify where the database is.
Instead, global(1) locates it by itself.
Because of this feature, you can move freely in a project,
and in and out of many projects.

@section Features

GNU GLOBAL has following features:

@itemize @bullet
@item support C, C++, Yacc, Java, PHP4 and assembly.
@item work the same way across diverse environments like follows:
	@itemize @minus
	@item Shell command line
	@item Bash shell
	@item Vi editor (Nvi, Elvis, vim)
	@item Less viewer
	@item Emacs editor (Emacs, Mule, Xemacs)
	@item Web browser
	@item Doxygen documentation system
	@end itemize
@item find the locations of specified object quickly.
@item locate not only object definitions but also object references.
@item allows duplicate objects.
@item locate path names which include specified pattern.
@item hierarchical search is available.
@item search not only in a source project but also in library projects.
@item generate completion list for completing input method.
@item support various output format.
@item allows customizing of the set of candidate files to be tagged.
@item understand POSIX 1003.2 regular expression.
@item support idutils as an external search engine.
@item tag files are independent of machine architecture.
@item support incremental updating of tag files.
@item plug-in parser is available to treat new language.
@item support customizing with @file{gtags.conf}.
@item generate a hypertext of source code.
@end itemize

@c ***************************************************************************
@c Global
@c ***************************************************************************
@node Global
@chapter Command line GLOBAL

You can use the tag facilities from shell command line.
It is a big merit of GLOBAL compared with any other tag systems.

@menu
* Preparation::                         Preparation.
* Basic usage::                         Basic usage.
* Applied usage::                       Applied usage.
@end menu

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Preparation
@section Preparation

Before beginning, please read the FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions) file.

    $ more /usr/local/share/gtags/FAQ

First of all, you must execute gtags(1)(@pxref{gtags}) at the root of source tree.
For example, if you want to browse the source code of Vi editor in FreeBSD,
please move to the source directory and invoke gtags(1).

@example

    $ cd /usr/src/usr.bin/vi
    $ gtags

@end example

Gtags traverses sub-directories, picks up source files and makes four tag files
at the current directory.
After this, the whole files under this directory is treated as a project.

@example

    $ ls G*
    GPATH   GRTAGS  GTAGS

@end example

@itemize @bullet
@item @file{GTAGS}
        definition database
@item @file{GRTAGS}
        reference database
@item @file{GPATH}
        path name database
@end itemize

You should prepare for considerable disk space for the tag files.
For example, Linux-2.6.32 source code requires the following disk space.

@example
    source code(Linux-2.6.32)       390MB

    GPATH                             6MB
    GTAGS                            81MB
    GRTAGS                          202MB
    -------------------------------------
    total of tag files              289MB
@end example

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Basic usage
@section Basic usage

Consider the following source tree:

@example

/home/user/
 |
 |-ROOT/      <- @r{the root of source tree (GTAGS,GRTAGS,...)}
    |
    |- README       .....   +---------------+
    |                       |The function of|
    |                       +---------------+
    |- DIR1/
    |  |
    |  |- fileA.c   .....   +---------------+
    |  |                    |main()@{        |
    |  |                    |       func1();|
    |  |                    |       func2();|
    |  |                    |@}              |
    |  |                    +---------------+
    |  |
    |  |- fileB.c   .....   +---------------+
    |                       |func1()@{ ... @} |
    |                       +---------------+
    |- DIR2/
       |
       |- fileC.c   .....   +---------------+
                            |#ifdef X       |
                            |func2()@{ i++; @}|
                            |#else          |
                            |func2()@{ i--; @}|
                            |#endif         |
                            |func3()@{       |
                            |       func1();|
                            |@}              |
                            +---------------+

@end example

@itemize @bullet
@item Once you make tag files at the root directory of the source tree,
you can execute global(1) from anywhere in the tree.
By default, you get the relative path of the located files.
You need not specify where the tag file is. Instead, global(1) locates it by itself.

@example

    $ cd /home/user/ROOT
    $ global func1
    DIR1/fileB.c            # @r{func1() is defined in fileB.c}
    $ cd DIR1
    $ global func1
    fileB.c                 # @r{relative path from DIR1}
    $ cd ../DIR2
    $ global func1
    ../DIR1/fileB.c         # @r{relative path from DIR2}

@end example

Global command is possible to use only when you are in a project.
If you are out of any project, it brings an error message like follows:

@example

    $ cd /home/user
    $ global func1
    global: GTAGS not found.

@end example

@item The @samp{-r} option locates object references.
@opindex -r

@example

    $ global -r func2
    ../DIR1/fileA.c         # @r{func2() is referred from fileA.c}

@end example

@item You can use POSIX regular expressions.

@example

    $ cd /home/user/ROOT
    $ global 'func[1-3]'
    DIR1/fileB.c            # @r{func1, func2 and func3 are matched}
    DIR2/fileC.c

@end example

@item The @samp{-x} option shows the details.
It is similar to the @samp{-x} option in ctags(1).
@opindex -x

@example

    $ global func2
    DIR2/fileC.c
    $ global -x func2
    func2              2 DIR2/fileC.c       func2()@{ i++; @}
    func2              4 DIR2/fileC.c       func2()@{ i--; @}

@end example

@item The @samp{-a} option produces the absolute path name.
@opindex -a

@example

    $ global -a func1
    /home/user/ROOT/DIR1/fileB.c

@end example

@item The @samp{-s} command locates symbols which are not defined in @file{GTAGS}.
@opindex -s

@example

    $ global -xs X
    X                  1 DIR2/fileC.c #ifdef X

@end example

@item The @samp{-g} command locates the lines which have specified pattern.
@opindex -g

@example

    $ global -xg '#ifdef'
    #ifdef             1 DIR2/fileC.c #ifdef X

@end example

It is similar to egrep(1) but is far more convenient for source code reading,
because it allows you to search through a project, and only in the source files.

Additionally, you can use various options:
@table @code
@item @kbd{-O}
@opindex -O
search only in the text files.
@item @kbd{-o}
@opindex -o
search in both the source files and text files.
@item @kbd{-l}
@opindex -l
search only under the current directory.
@end table

The @kbd{-e}, @kbd{-G} and @kbd{-i} options are available too.
The usage is the same as egrep(1).

You can even change the output format of global(1) to the grep style
using the @samp{--result=grep} option.
@opindex --result
Of course, these options can be used even by other commands.

@item The @samp{-P} command locates path names which include specified pattern.
@opindex -P

@example

    $ global -P fileB
    DIR1/fileB.c
    $ global -P '1/'
    DIR1/fileA.c
    DIR1/fileB.c
    $ global -P '\.c$'
    DIR1/fileA.c
    DIR1/fileB.c
    DIR2/fileC.c

@end example

@item The @samp{-f} command print a list of objects in specified file.
@opindex -f

@example

    $ global -f DIR2/fileC.c
    func2              2 DIR2/fileC.c   func2()@{ i++; @}
    func2              4 DIR2/fileC.c   func2()@{ i--; @}
    func3              6 DIR2/fileC.c   func3()@{

@end example

@item The @samp{-l} option limits the range of the retrieval under the current directory.
@opindex -l
@example

    $ cd DIR1
    $ global -xl func[1-3]
    func1        1 fileB.c      func1()@{...@}

@end example
@end itemize

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Applied usage
@section Applied usage

@itemize @bullet
@item You can customize a set of candidate files to be tagged.
@opindex -f

@example

    $ find . -type f -print >/tmp/list     # make a file set
    $ vi /tmp/list                         # customize the file set
    $ gtags -f /tmp/list

@end example

@item If your source files are on a read-only device, such as CDROM,
then you cannot make tag files at the root of the source tree.
In such case, you can make tag files in another place using
the @code{GTAGSROOT} environment variable.

@example

    $ mkdir /var/dbpath
    $ cd /cdrom/src                 # @r{the root of source tree}
    $ gtags /var/dbpath             # @r{make tag files in /var/dbpath}
    $ export GTAGSROOT=`pwd`
    $ export GTAGSDBPATH=/var/dbpath
    $ global func

@end example

There is another method for it. Since global(1) locates tag files also in
@file{/usr/obj} + <current directory>, you can setup like follows:

@example

    $ cd /cdrom/src                 # @r{the root of source tree}
    $ mkdir -p /usr/obj/cdrom/src
    $ gtags /usr/obj/cdrom/src      # @r{make tag files in /usr/obj/cdrom/src}
    $ global func

@end example

The value @file{/usr/obj} can be changed by environment variable
@code{MAKEOBJDIRPREFIX}.
The @samp{-O, --objdir} option do it automatically instead of you.
@opindex -O

@item If you want to locate objects that are not defined in the source tree,
then you can specify library directories with the @code{GTAGSLIBPATH}
environment variable.

You should execute gtags at each directory of the path.
If @file{GTAGS} is not found there, global ignores it.

@example

    $ pwd
    /develop/src/mh                         # @r{this is a source project}
    $ gtags
    $ ls G*TAGS
    GRTAGS  GTAGS
    $ global mhl
    uip/mhlsbr.c                            # @r{mhl() is found}
    $ global strlen                         # @r{strlen() is not found}
    $ (cd /usr/src/lib; gtags)              # @r{library source}
    $ (cd /usr/src/sys; gtags)              # @r{kernel source}
    $ export GTAGSLIBPATH=/usr/src/lib:/usr/src/sys
    $ global strlen
    ../../../usr/src/lib/libc/string/strlen.c  # @r{found in library}
    $ global access
    ../../../usr/src/sys/kern/vfs_syscalls.c   # @r{found in kernel}

@end example

Or, you can take a more straightforward way to do the same thing.
In the following example, we treat as if the system library and the kernel
are part of our project.

@example

    $ ln -s /usr/src/lib .
    $ ln -s /usr/src/sys .
    $ gtags
    $ global strlen
    lib/libc/string/strlen.c
    $ global access
    sys/kern/vfs_syscalls.c

@end example

@item If you forget object names, you can use the @samp{-c} (complete) command.
@opindex -c

@example

    $ global -c kmem                # @r{maybe k..k.. kmem..}
    kmem_alloc
    kmem_alloc_pageable
    kmem_alloc_wait
    kmem_free
    kmem_free_wakeup
    kmem_init
    kmem_malloc
    kmem_suballoc                   # @r{This is what I need!}
    $ global kmem_suballoc
    ../vm/vm_kern.c

@end example

@item You can use the @samp{-c} command with the complete command in the shell.

In Bash:
@example

    $ funcs()
    > @{
    >         local cur
    >         cur=$@{COMP_WORDS[COMP_CWORD]@}
    >         COMPREPLY=(`global -c $cur`)
    > @}
    $ complete -F funcs global
    $ global kmem_@kbd{TAB}@kbd{TAB}
    kmem_alloc           kmem_alloc_wait      kmem_init
    kmem_alloc_nofault   kmem_free            kmem_malloc
    kmem_alloc_pageable  kmem_free_wakeup     kmem_suballoc
    $ global kmem_s@kbd{TAB}
    $ global kmem_suballoc
    ../vm/vm_kern.c

@end example

In Tcsh:
@example

    % set funcs=(`global -c`)
    % complete global 'n/*/$funcs/'
    % global kmem_@kbd{TAB}
    kmem_alloc          kmem_free_wakeup
    kmem_alloc_pageable kmem_init
    kmem_alloc_wait     kmem_malloc
    kmem_free           kmem_suballoc
    % global kmem_s@kbd{TAB}
    % global kmem_suballoc
    ../vm/vm_kern.c

@end example

If you like input completion, you had better try globash(@pxref{GloBash}).
It support you in a suitable way without any preparation.

@item You can edit all files which have specified objects by typing
one command, for example:

@example

    $ vi `global func1`     # @r{edit fileB.c}

@end example

@item If you want to browse many files in order, do the following:

@example

    $ global -xr fork | awk '@{printf "view +%s %s\n",$2,$3@}'
    view +650 ../dev/aic7xxx/aic7xxx_asm.c
    view +250 ibcs2/ibcs2_misc.c
    view +401 linux/linux_misc.c
    view +310 ../kern/init_main.c
    view +318 ../kern/init_main.c
    view +336 ../kern/init_main.c
    view +351 ../kern/init_main.c
    $ !! | sh            # @r{from now on, go to next tag with 'ZZ'.}

@end example

@end itemize

@c ***************************************************************************
@c Applications
@c ***************************************************************************
@node Applications
@chapter Various applications

@menu
* GloBash::                             Global facility for Bash.
* Less viewer::                         Less using GLOBAL.
* Nvi-1.81.5 editor::                   Nvi-1.81.5 using GLOBAL.
* Elvis editor::                        Elvis using GLOBAL.
* Vim editor::                          Vim using GLOBAL.
* Emacs editor::                        Extended Emacs using GLOBAL.
* Gtags-cscope (fake cscope)::          Gtags-cscope (fake cscope).
* Web browser::                         Hypertext generator.
* Doxygen documentation system::	Doxygen using GLOBAL.
@end menu

@c ***************************************************************************
@c GloBash
@c ***************************************************************************
@node GloBash
@section Global facility for Bash

Special support for Bash is available.

@menu
* Features(globash)::			Features.
* Preparation(globash)::		Preparation.
* Usage(globash)::			Usage.
@end menu

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Features(globash)
@subsection Features

@itemize @bullet
@item
Vi-like tag stack is available.
@item
Emacs-like tag name completion is available.
@item
Automatic invoking of editor.
@item
Tag mark facility is available.
@item
Yoo can manage a directory list by cookie facility.
@end itemize

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Preparation(globash)
@subsection Preparation

First, do the preparation of global. @xref{Preparation}.
And you can invoke globash(1) command.
@example

    $ globash

@end example

Only first time, you will see the following message.

@example
    GloBash needs a working directory. Do you create '/home/you/.globash'? ([y]/n)
@end example

Inputing the ENTER key, you will see a prompt like this:

@example

    [/usr/src/sys]/kern _

@end example

This prompt means that the current directory is '/usr/src/sys/kern' and
the root directory of the project is '/usr/src/sys'.
Tag and marker are valid only in a project.

When you try to go out of the project, globash warns like:
@example

    [/usr/src/sys] cd ..
    You are going to get out of the current project.
    Tag stack and marker will be removed. Sure? ([y]/n)_

@end example

If you answer @kbd{y} and @kbd{RET}
or just @kbd{RET} in the above prompt then the tag stack and marker
(described later) will be removed.

If you need help then please type @kbd{ghelp}.

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Usage(globash)
@subsection Usage

@itemize @bullet
@item Almost global(1)(@pxref{global})'s command characters are available as a command.
@example

    [/usr/src/sys] x fork               <- @r{(global -x fork)}
    >    1  fork              94 kern/kern_fork.c fork(p, uap)
    [/usr/src/sys] r                    <- @r{(global -xr fork)}
    >    1  fork              85 alpha/linux/linux_machdep.c
         2  fork             184 i386/linux/linux_machdep.c
    [/usr/src/sys] s lbolt              <- @r{(global -xs lbolt)}
    >    1  lbolt            1210 i386/isa/wd_cd.c     tsleep((cad
         2  lbolt            1211 i386/isa/wd_cd.c     tsleep((cad
         3  lbolt            709 i386/isa/wfd.c     tsleep ((caddr
    ...
    [/usr/src/sys] g                    <- @r{(global -xg lbolt)}
    >    1  lbolt            1210 i386/isa/wd_cd.c     tsleep((cad
    ...
    [/usr/src/sys] P init               <- @r{(global -xP init)}
    >    1  path    1 dev/hea/eni_init.c 
         2  path    1 dev/hfa/fore_init.c 
         3  path    1 i386/i386/initcpu.c 
         4  path    1 kern/init_main.c 
         5  path    1 kern/init_sysent.c 
         6  path    1 kern/vfs_init.c 
         7  path    1 vm/vm_init.c 
    [/usr/src/sys] _

@end example

If no argument is specified then the latest argument is used.

@item Input completion facility is available. For each command, suitable completion is applied.

@example
    [/usr/src/sys] x kmem_@kbd{TAB}@kbd{TAB}
    kmem_alloc          kmem_free           kmem_malloc         
    kmem_alloc_nofault  kmem_free_wakeup    kmem_object         
    kmem_alloc_wait     kmem_init           kmem_suballoc       
    [/usr/src/sys] x kmem_s@kbd{TAB}
    [/usr/src/sys] x kmem_suballoc

@end example

@item You can select a tag by the @kbd{show} command.
@example

    [/usr/src/sys] x main
    >    1  main              70 alpha/alpha/gensetdefs.c main(in
         2  main             1500 alpha/alpha/ieee_float.c main(i
         3  main             227 boot/alpha/boot1/boot1.c main()
    ....
    [/usr/src/sys] show 3
    (Load editor and show boot/alpha/boot1/boot1.c at line 227.)

@end example

The default editor is vi(1) but you can specify it statically by @code{EDITOR}
environment variable or temporarily by options.

@example

    [/usr/src/sys] show -e 3
    (Preloaded emacs show boot/alpha/boot1/boot1.c at line 227.)
    [/usr/src/sys] show -l 3
    (Load less and show boot/alpha/boot1/boot1.c at line 227.)
    [/usr/src/sys] show -g 3
    (Preloaded mozilla show boot/alpha/boot1/boot1.c at line 227.)

@end example

Otherwise, you can use the following commands (and abbreviated form):
@table @code
@item list (@kbd{l})
print tag list.
@item first
go to the first tag.
@item last
go to the last tag.
@item next (@kbd{n})
go to next tag.
@item prev (@kbd{p})
go to previous tag.
@item show n (@kbd{1,2,3,..,999})
go to nth tag
@end table

@item You can use vi-like tag stack. You can return the previous tag list
by the @kbd{pop} or @kbd{CTL-T} command.
@example

    [/usr/src/sys] x main
    >    1  main              70 alpha/alpha/gensetdefs.c main(in
         2  main             1500 alpha/alpha/ieee_float.c main(i
         3  main             227 boot/alpha/boot1/boot1.c main()
    ....
    [/usr/src/sys] show 3
    (Load editor and show boot/alpha/boot1/boot1.c at line 227.)
    [/usr/src/sys] x fork          <- @r{push new tag on the tag stack.}
    >    1  fork              94 kern/kern_fork.c fork(p, uap)
    [/usr/src/sys] pop             <- @r{pop tag stack.}
    [/usr/src/sys] show
    (Load editor and show boot/alpha/boot1/boot1.c at line 227.)

@end example

You can print the tag stack by @kbd{tags} command.

@item You can memory tags using the @kbd{mark} command.
@example

    [/usr/src/sys] x fork
    >    1  fork              94 kern/kern_fork.c fork(p, uap)
    [/usr/src/sys] mark
    [/usr/src/sys] x main
    >    1  main              70 alpha/alpha/gensetdefs.c main(in
         2  main             1500 alpha/alpha/ieee_float.c main(i
         3  main             227 boot/alpha/boot1/boot1.c main()
    ....
    [/usr/src/sys] mark -l              <- @r{show marker list.}
         1  fork              94 kern/kern_fork.c fork(p, uap)
    [/usr/src/sys] mark 1               <- @r{select a marker.}
    (Load editor and show kern/kern_fork.c at line 227.)
    [/usr/src/sys] list
    >    1  main              70 alpha/alpha/gensetdefs.c main(in
         2  main             1500 alpha/alpha/ieee_float.c main(i
         3  main             227 boot/alpha/boot1/boot1.c main()
    ....

@end example

Marked tags are valid until you go out of the current project or quit
the current Bash session.

@item You can memory directories using the @kbd{cookie} command,
and return there using the @kbd{warp} command.
@example

    [/usr/src/sys] cookie               <- @r{drop a cookie.}
    [/usr/src/sys] cd kern
    [/usr/src/sys]/kern cookie          <- @r{drop a cookie again.}
    [/usr/src/sys]/kern cd ../i386
    [/usr/src/sys]/i386 cookie -l       <- @r{show cookie list.}
         1  /usr/src/sys/kern
         2  /usr/src/sys
    [/usr/src/sys]/i386 warp 2          <- @r{warp to the selected cookie.}
    [/usr/src/sys] _

@end example

Cookie directories are valid until you delete them.

@end itemize

@c ***************************************************************************
@c Less viewer
@c ***************************************************************************
@node Less viewer
@section Less using GLOBAL

You can use GLOBAL as the tag system of Less(1) viewer instead of ctags.

@menu
* Features(Less)::                       Features.
* Preparation(Less)::                    Preparation.
* Usage(Less)::                          Usage.
@end menu

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Features(Less)
@subsection Features

@itemize @bullet
@item
You can use most of GLOBAL's facilities from Less viewer.
@item
Less viewer support duplicated tag.
@end itemize

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Preparation(Less)
@subsection Preparation

First, do the preparation of global. @xref{Preparation}.

Second, to use global from Less, you need to set environment variable
@code{LESSGLOBALTAGS} to "global".

@example

    $ export LESSGLOBALTAGS=global

@end example

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Usage(Less)
@subsection Usage

@itemize @bullet
@item To go to func1, you can say
@example

    $ less -t func1

@end example

Please note that if @file{tags} exists in the current directory then Less use it.
If you want to use @file{GTAGS} even if @file{tags} exists
then please specify the tag file explicitly like this:

@example

    $ less -TGTAGS -t func1

@end example

@item To go to the referenced point of func1, please specify @file{GRTAGS}.
@example

    $ less -TGRTAGS -t func1

@end example

In the same way, you can use @file{GTAGS}, @file{GRTAGS},
@file{GPATH} as tag files.

@item If a number of objects are located, Less goes to the first tag.
You can go to next tag by typing @kbd{t} and back by typing @kbd{T}.

@table @code
@item @kbd{t}
go to next tag.
@item @kbd{T}
go to previous tag.
@end table

@item
In a Less session, you can use @kbd{:t} command to locate new symbol.
But in this case, you cannot change tag file from one specified by
@samp{-T} option.

@item With the @samp{-T-} option, Less read standard input as a tag file.
You can connect global and Less with a pipe. It is very convenient.

@example

    $ global -x func | less -T-

@end example

In the same way, you can use the following command lines:

@example

    # pattern match with grep(1).
    $ global -xg 'lseek(.*)' | less -T-

    # pattern match with idutils(1).
    $ global -xI func | less -T-

    # all objects definitions in *.c.
    $ global -f *.c | less -T-

    # all files includes 'init' in its path.
    $ global -Px init | less -T-

@end example

@item If your editor doesn't support GLOBAL directly then you can use Less
as a footstool.

@example

    # invoke less
    $ less -t main
    main(int argc, char **argv)
    @{
    int i;
    .....
    [xxx/main.c (tag 1 of 55)]

    # type 'v'(vi) command in less session.
    v

    # load vi and show the same position.
    .....
    main((int argc, char **argv)
    @{
    int i;
    .....
    [xxx/main.c 313 lines, 7783 char]

    # type 'ZZ' command in vi session.
    ZZ

    # exit vi and back to less session.
    main(int argc, char **argv)
    @{
    int i;
    .....
    [xxx/main.c (tag 1 of 55)]

@end example

@end itemize

@c ***************************************************************************
@c Nvi-1.81.5 editor
@c ***************************************************************************
@node Nvi-1.81.5 editor
@section Nvi-1.81.5 using GLOBAL

You can use GLOBAL as the tag system of Nvi editor instead of ctags.

@menu
* Features(Nvi-1.81.5)::		Features.
* Preparation(Nvi-1.81.5)::             Preparation.
* Usage(Nvi-1.81.5)::                   Usage.
@end menu

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Features(Nvi-1.81.5)
@subsection Features

@itemize @bullet
@item
You can use most of GLOBAL's facilities from Nvi.
@item
Intelligent recognition of the current token and its type.
@end itemize

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Preparation(Nvi-1.81.5)
@subsection Preparation

First, do the preparation of global. @xref{Preparation}.

Second, to use global from Nvi, you need write to @file{.nexrc} like this:
It assumed that @file{gtags.pl} is put on @file{$HOME/perl}.

@example

    $HOME/.nexrc
    +----------------------------
    |perl use lib "$ENV@{'HOME'@}/perl"
    |perl require 'gtags.pl'
    |map ^P :tagprev^M
    |map ^N :tagnext^M
    |map ^] :perl tag^M
    |ab gtag perl tag qw(
    |ab gta perl tag qw(
    |ab gt perl tag qw(

@end example

You must start Nvi in a project described in @ref{Preparation}.

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Usage(Nvi-1.81.5)
@subsection Usage

@itemize @bullet
@item To go to func1, you can say
@example

    :perl tag qw(func1)

@end example
@example

    Suggested .nexrc:
    ab gtag perl tag qw(
    ab gta perl tag qw(
    ab gt perl tag qw(

@end example

@item To go to the referenced point of func1, add the option @samp{-r}
@example

    :perl tag qw(-r func1)

@end example

@item If a number of objects are located, Nvi goes to the first tag.
You can go to next tag by typing @kbd{:tagnext} and back by typing @kbd{:tagprev}.

@example

    Suggested .nexrc:
    map ^N :tagnext^M
    map ^P :tagprev^M

@end example

@item If you don't specify any argument. ':perl tag' command do the followings:

If the context of the current token is a definition then it is equivalent to
@kbd{:perl tag qw(-r @var{current token})}.
Otherwise, if it is a reference to some definitions then it is equivalent to
@kbd{:perl tag qw(@var{current token})} else it is equivalent
to @kbd{:perl tag qw(-s @var{current token})}.

@example

    Suggested .nexrc:
    map ^] :perl tag^M

@end example

It is similar to @kbd{CTL-]} command.

@item You can use the @samp{-s} option. It locates symbols which are not
defined in @file{GTAGS}.
@example

    :perl tag qw(-s pat)

@end example

@item The @samp{-g}, @samp{-f} and @samp{-P} option are also available.
It works like command line.
@example

    :perl tag qw(-g pat)

@end example

@item When you want to locate objects the name of which start with "set" or "get", use:
@example

    :perl tag qw(^[sg]et)

@end example

@item Other tag commands are also available:
@table @code
@item @kbd{CTL-T}
returns to the most recent tag location.
@item @kbd{:tagpop}
returns to the most recent tag location.
@item @kbd{:tagtop}
returns to the top of the tag stack.
@item @kbd{:display tags}
display the tags stack.
@end table
@end itemize

@c ***************************************************************************
@c Elvis editor
@c ***************************************************************************
@node Elvis editor
@section Elvis using GLOBAL

Elvis 2.1 or the later has two variables, @code{tagprg} and @code{tagprgonce} for
running an external tag search program. You can use them for GLOBAL.

@menu
* Features(Elvis)::                     Features.
* Preparation(Elvis)::                  Preparation.
* Usage(Elvis)::                        Usage.
@end menu

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Features(Elvis)
@subsection Features

@itemize @bullet
@item
You can use most of GLOBAL's facilities from Elvis.
@item
Mouse is supported.
@end itemize

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Preparation(Elvis)
@subsection Preparation

First, do the preparation of global. @xref{Preparation}.

Second, start Elvis and execute @code{set tagprg="global -t $1"} like this:
@opindex -t

@example

    $ elvis
    ~
    ~
    ~
    ~
    ~
    ~
    :set tagprg="global -t $1"

@end example

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Usage(Elvis)
@subsection Usage

@itemize @bullet
@item To go to func1, you can say
@example

    :tag func1

@end example

It seems same as original Elvis, but Elvis execute @code{global -t func1}
internally and read the output instead of tags file.

@item To go to the referenced point of func1, add @samp{-r} option.
@opindex -r
@example

    :tag -r func1

@end example

@item To locate symbols which are not defined in @file{GTAGS}, try this.
@opindex -s
@example

    :tag -s lbolt

@end example

@item To locate strings, try this.
@opindex -g
@example

    :tag -g Copyright

@end example

@item When a lot of results are expected, you had better use the browse command.
@example

    :browse -r fork

@end example

It brings a following selection list. You can select a tag line and go to
the point.

@example

    Browse -r fork (2 matches)
    +----------------+----------------+--------------------
    | TAG NAME       | SOURCE FILE    | SOURCE LINE                   
    +----------------+----------------+--------------------
    |fork            |ux/linux_misc.c | (line 565)                    
    |fork            |ern/init_main.c | (line 191)                    
    +----------------+----------------+--------------------

@end example

@item To get a list of objects in specified files, use @samp{-f} command.
@opindex -f
@example

    :browse -f main.c               <- @r{locate definitions in main.c}

@end example

@item Other tag commands are also available:

@table @code
@item @kbd{CTL-]}
        go to the definition of current token.
@item @kbd{CTL-T}
        return to the most recent tag context.
@item @kbd{:tag}
        without argument, go to the next tag.
@item @kbd{:pop}
        return to the most recent tag context.
@item @kbd{:stack}
        display the tags stack.
@item @kbd{:stag}
        creates a new window and moves its cursor to the tag's definition point.
@item @kbd{:sbrowse}
        same with @kbd{browse} but show in a new window.
@end table

@item You can use POSIX regular expressions.
@opindex -g
@example

    :tag ^put_                  <- @r{locate objects start with 'put_'}
    
    :browse -g 'fseek(.*L_SET)' <- @r{locate fseek() using L_SET argument}

@end example

@item You can browse an object list of many files.
@opindex -f
@example

    :browse -f *.c              <- @r{locate objects in *.c}

@end example

@item You can browse the files whose path includes specified pattern.
@opindex -P
@example

    :browse -P /vm/             <- @r{under vm/ directory}
    :browse -P \.h$             <- @r{all include files}
    :browse -P init             <- @r{path including 'init'}

@end example

@item You can use mouse for tag operations.

If you have a mouse, then you can use the left button to double-click
on a word in the text, to have Elvis perform a @kbd{:tag} search on that word.
Double-clicking the right button anywhere in the text will perform
a @kbd{:pop} command.

In the selection list by the @kbd{browse} command, you can use the left button
to double-click on a tag name, to have Elvis select the tag.
To come back, double-click on the right button.
@end itemize

@c ***************************************************************************
@c Vim editor
@c ***************************************************************************
@node Vim editor
@section Vim using GLOBAL

In Vim 6.2 or later, you can use @file{gtags.vim} script.

@menu
* Features(Vim)::                       Features.
* Preparation(Vim)::                    Preparation.
* Usage(Vim)::                          Usage.
@end menu

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Features(Vim)
@subsection Features

@itemize @bullet
@item
You can use most of GLOBAL's facilities from Vim.
@item
Intelligent recognition of the current token and its type.
@item
Special character '%', '#' and input completion are available.
@end itemize

To our regret, tag stack facility is not available.
If you want to use the facility, please try gtags-cscope
@xref{Gtags-cscope (fake cscope)}.
@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Preparation(Vim)
@subsection Preparation

First, do the preparation of global. @xref{Preparation}.

Second, copy @file{gtags.vim} to your plug-in directory or source it
from your vimrc.

@example

    $ cp /usr/local/share/gtags/gtags.vim $HOME/.vim/plugin

@end example

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Usage(Vim)
@subsection Usage

@itemize @bullet
@item To go to main, you can say
@example

    :Gtags main

@end example

Vim execute global(1), parse the output, list located objects
in quickfix window and load the first entry.
The quickfix windows is like this:
@example

gozilla/gozilla.c|200| main(int argc, char **argv)
gtags-cscope/gtags-cscope.c|124| main(int argc, char **argv)
gtags-parser/asm_scan.c|2056| int main()
gtags-parser/gctags.c|157| main(int argc, char **argv)
gtags-parser/php.c|2116| int main()
gtags/gtags.c|152| main(int argc, char **argv)
[Quickfix List]

@end example

You can go to any entry using quickfix command.

@table @code
@item @kbd{:cn}
        go to the next entry.
@item @kbd{:cp}
        go to the previous entry.
@item @kbd{:ccN}
        go to the N'th entry.
@item @kbd{:cl}
        list all entries.
@end table

You can see the help of quickfix like this:
@example

    :h quickfix

@end example

@example
    Suggested map:
    map <C-n> :cn<CR>
    map <C-p> :cp<CR>
@end example

@item To go to the referenced point of func1, add @samp{-r} option.
@opindex -r
@example

    :Gtags -r func1

@end example

@item To locate symbols which are not defined in @file{GTAGS}, try this.
@opindex -s
@example

    :Gtags -s lbolt

@end example

@item To locate strings, try this.
@opindex -g
@example

    :Gtags -g int argc

    :Gtags -g "root"

    :Gtags -ge -C		<- @r{locate '-C'}

@end example


@item To get a list of objects in specified files, use -f command.
@opindex -f
@example

    :Gtags -f main.c               <- @r{locate objects in main.c}

@end example

If you are editing @file{main.c} itself, you can use '%' instead.
@example

    :Gtags -f %                    <- @r{locate objects in main.c}

@end example

@item You can use POSIX regular expressions.
@opindex -g
@example

    :Gtags ^put_                <- @r{locate objects start with 'put_'}
    
    :Gtags -g fseek(.*SEEK_SET) <- @r{locate fseek() using SEEK_SET}

@end example

@item Input completion is available.

In the command line, press @kbd{CTL-D} after some typings
and Vim will show a list of tag names that start with the string.
Press @kbd{TAB} and Vim will complete the tag name.

@example
    :Gtags fu@kbd{TAB}

    :Gtags func1               <- @r{'nc1' is appended by vim}
@end example

@item You can browse files whose path includes specified pattern.
@opindex -P

@example

    :Gtags -P /vm/             <- @r{under vm/ directory}
    :Gtags -P \.h$             <- @r{all include files}
    :Gtags -P init             <- @r{path including 'init'}

@end example

@item You can use all options of global(1) except for the -c, -n, -p, -q, -u, -v and
	all long name options. They are sent to global(1) as is.
	For example,

@example

    :Gtags -gi paTtern    <- @r{match to both 'PATTERN' and 'pattern'.}

    :Gtags -POi make      <- @r{match to Makefile but doesn't match to makeit.c.}

@end example
	About the other options, please see @xref{global}.

@item The GtagsCursor command brings you to the definition or reference of the current token.

	If the context of the current token is a definition then it is equivalent to
	@kbd{:Gtags -r @var{current token}}.
	Otherwise, if it is a reference to some definitions then it is equivalent to
	@kbd{:Gtags @var{current token}} else it is equivalent
	to @kbd{:Gtags -s @var{current token}}.

@example

    :GtagsCursor

@end example

@example

    Suggested map:
    map <C-\>^] :GtagsCursor<CR>

@end example

Though the mapping ':GtagsCursor' to '^]' seems suitable,
it will bring an inconvenience in the help screen.

@item If you have the hypertext generated by htags(1) then you can display
	the same part of the source code on the mozilla browser.
	Let's load mozilla and try this:

@example

    :Gozilla

@end example

@example

    Suggested map:
    map <C-g> :Gozilla<CR>

@end example

@item If you want to load Vim with all main()s then following command line is useful.

@example

    $ vim '+Gtags main'

@end example
@end itemize

@c ***************************************************************************
@c Emacs editor
@c ***************************************************************************
@node Emacs editor
@section Extended Emacs using GLOBAL

You can use GLOBAL as the tag system of Emacs editor instead of etags.

@menu
* Features(Emacs)::			Features.
* Preparation(Emacs)::                  Preparation.
* Usage(Emacs)::                        Usage.
@end menu

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Features(Emacs)
@subsection Features

@itemize @bullet
@item
You can use most of GLOBAL's facilities from the editor.
@item
More intelligent recognition of the current token and its type.
@item
Tag completion is available for input tag name.
@item
Mouse is supported.
@end itemize

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Preparation(Emacs)
@subsection Preparation

First, do the preparation of global. @xref{Preparation}.

Second, to use global from Emacs, you need to load the @file{gtags.el}
and execute gtags-mode function in it.

Write the call to autoload function to your @file{$HOME/.emacs},
start Emacs and execute gtags-mode function.
If you put @file{gtags.el} in a directory other than the standard
macro directory, you need to add it to @code{load-path}.

@example

    $HOME/.emacs
    +------------------------------------------------------
    |(setq load-path (cons "/home/owner/global" load-path))
    |(autoload 'gtags-mode "gtags" "" t)
    
    $ emacs
    
    |
    |J_:-----Mule: *scratch*       (Lisp Interaction)--L16--All----
    |M-x gtags-mode[RET]
    +------------------------------------------------------

@end example

If you want to get into gtags-mode whenever you get into c-mode
then you can append the following code to your @file{$HOME/.emacs}.

@example

      (setq c-mode-hook
          '(lambda ()
              (gtags-mode 1)
      ))

@end example

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Usage(Emacs)
@subsection Usage

@itemize @bullet
@item To go to func1, invoke @code{gtags-find-tag}
and you can see a prompt in the mini-buffer. Then input the tag name.
@example

    Find tag: func1			<- @r{'Find tag: ' is a prompt}

@end example
@item To go to the referenced point of func1, invoke @code{gtags-find-rtag}.

@example

    Find tag (reference): func1

@end example

@item Tag name completion is available.
     You need to execute @code{gtags-make-complete-list} command before it.

@example

    Find tag: fu@kbd{TAB}
    
    Find tag: func1                     <- @r{'nc1' is appended by emacs}

@end example

@item If a number of objects are located, Emacs goes into @dfn{GTAGS SELECT MODE} like this:

@example

    +-------------------------------------------------------------
    |main             347 i386/isa/ultra14f.c main()
    |main             128 kern/init_main.c   main(framep)
    |main             104 netiso/clnp_debug.c main()
    |main             164 netiso/xebec/main.c main(argc, argv)
    |
    |
    |
    |
    |
    |J_:--%*-Mule: *scratch*       (Gtags Select)--L1--All----
    |[GTAGS SELECT MODE] 4 lines
    +-------------------------------------------------------------

@end example

Please select a tag line by any Emacs command and press @kbd{RET},
and you can go to the tag's point. When you want to go to the next or
the previous tag, please return to the above mode with @code{gtags-pop-stack}
and reselect.

You can customize the path style in this mode by setting @code{gtags-path-style}
variable.

@table @code
@item @code{root}
relative from the root of the project (Default)
@item @code{relative}
relative from the current directory
@item @code{absolute}
absolute (relative from the system root directory)
@end table

There are two method to set this variable:
@itemize @bullet
@item You can change it dynamically using the @code{customize} command of Emacs.

You will find the entry in the Programming/Tools/Gtags group.

@item You can change it when Emacs is loaded using @file{.emacs} file like this:

@example

    (setq gtags-mode-hook
      '(lambda ()
        (setq gtags-path-style 'relative)))

@end example
@end itemize

@item @code{gtags-find-tag-from-here} command is available.

If current token is a definition, it is equivalent to
@kbd{Find tag (reference): @var{current token}RET},
otherwise it is equivalent to @kbd{Find tag: @var{current token}RET}.

@item To locate symbols which are not defined in @file{GTAGS}, try @code{gtags-find-symbol}.
@example

    Find symbol: lbolt		<- @r{'Find symbol:' is a prompt}

@end example
@item To locate strings, try @code{gtags-find-with-grep}.
@example

    Find pattern: Copyright

@end example

@item You can use POSIX regular expressions.

@example

    Find tag: ^put_                 <- @r{locate tags start with 'put_'}

@end example

@item Mouse command is available.

If you use X version Emacs, try the following:

Move the mouse cursor to an object name and click the middle button,
and you can go to the point of the definitions, or to its references,
depending on the context. In 'GTAGS SELECT MODE', move the mouse cursor
to a line and click the center button.

To return to the previous position, click the right button.
@end itemize

@c ***************************************************************************
@c Gtags-cscope (fake cscope)
@c ***************************************************************************
@node Gtags-cscope (fake cscope)
@section Gtags-cscope (fake cscope)

You can use gtags-cscope(1) instead of cscope(1).
For example, you can deceive Vim editor using the following commands:

@example

:set csprg=gtags-cscope
:cs add GTAGS

@end example

After this, you can use built-in 'cs find' commands in the Vim editor.
Though the deceit is not perfect ('cs find d' is not implemented),
this method might be more convenient than @file{gtags.vim} in the point that
you can use the tag stack facility of Vim.

@c ***************************************************************************
@c Web browser
@c ***************************************************************************
@node Web browser
@section Hypertext generator

You can use GLOBAL's facilities from web browsers.

@menu
* Features(browser)::                   Features.
* Preparation(browser)::                Preparation.
* Usage(browser)::                      Usage.
@end menu

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Features(browser)
@subsection Features

@itemize @bullet
@item Htags makes a hypertext from C, C++, Yacc and Java source files.
@item Once the hypertext is generated, you need nothing other than a web browser.
@item You can move the hypertext to anywhere. It is independent of the source code.
@item You can use all of your browser's functions, such as search,
     history, bookmark, save, frames, windows, etc.
@end itemize

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Preparation(browser)
@subsection Preparation

At first, you must ensure that you have a lot of disk space for hypertext.
For example, Linux-2.6.32 source code (390MB) requires 4-6 G byte of disk space.
@example

    source code(Linux-2.6.32)            390MB
    GPATH,GTAGS,GRTAGS                   289MB

    hypertext (with no option)           3.8GB
    hypertext (with --suggest option)    5.7GB
   
@end example

Please invoke gtags(1)(@pxref{gtags}) and htags(1)(@pxref{htags})
in order like this:

@example

    (at the root directory of your source project)
    $ gtags                 # @r{make tag files(GPATH,GTAGS,GRTAGS)}
    $ htags                 # @r{make hypertext(HTML/)}

@end example

Then you will find a directory named @file{HTML} in the current directory.

Htags has rich options. If you are new on htags then you are recommended to use
the @samp{--suggest} option. This option makes some popular options effective,
and invokes gtags(1) if there is no tag files.

@example

    $ htags --suggest

@end example

If HTTP server is available then the -D and -f option are also useful.

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Usage(browser)
@subsection Usage

Please start a web browser like this:

@example

    $ lynx HTML/index.html

@end example

You will understand the usage by looking at the examples.

You can move the HTML directory to anywhere. It is independent of the
source code as long as CGI facility is not used.

Using mozilla, you can also utilize the hypertext from your command line like this:

@example

    $ mozilla				# @r{load mozilla}
    $ global -x main
    main        10 main.c main(int argc, char *argv[]) @{
    $ gozilla +10 main.c		# @r{usage is similar to vi editor.}
    (show main.c at 10 on mozilla's screen.)
    
@end example

But in this case, you must not move the HTML directory from the source directory.

@c ***************************************************************************
@c Doxygen documentation system
@c ***************************************************************************
@node Doxygen documentation system
@section Doxygen using GLOBAL

You can use GLOBAL as the source browser of Doxygen.

Doxygen Release 1.4.3 or later has config option USE_HTAGS.
When enabled in combination with SOURCE_BROWSER=YES, htags(1) is
used as the source browser instead of Doxygen's own. 

Here is an example.

@example

(in source directory)
$ doxygen -g
$ vi Doxyfile
+---------------------------------
|...
|INPUT                  = .
|RECURSIVE              = YES
|SOURCE_BROWSER         = YES
|USE_HTAGS              = YES
|...

$ doxygen
$ lynx html/index.html

@end example

@c ***************************************************************************
@c Other topics
@c ***************************************************************************
@node Other topics
@chapter Other topics

@menu
* Configuration::                       How to config GLOBAL.
* Plug-in::                             Plug-in parser.
* Incremental updating::                Incremental updating.
@end menu

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Configuration
@section How to config GLOBAL

You can customize GLOBAL using configuration file.

@example

    # cp gtags.conf /etc/gtags.conf         # system wide config file.
    # vi /etc/gtags.conf

    $ cp gtags.conf $HOME/.globalrc         # personal config file.
    $ vi $HOME/.globalrc

@end example

If @file{$HOME/.globalrc} exists then GLOBAL use it, else if @file{/etc/gtags.conf}
exists then GLOBAL use it. Otherwise default value is used.
The format of @file{gtags.conf} is resemble to termcap(5). By default, 'default'
target is used.
About the capabilities, please see each command manual. @xref{Reference}.

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Plug-in
@section Plug-in parser

You can write new parser for gtags(1).

Command layer plug-in parser was abolished.
Please write function layer plug-in parser instead.
See @file{plugin-example/} to know function layer plug-in parser.

@c ***************************************************************************
@node   Incremental updating
@section Incremental updating

Modifying some source files, you need not remake the whole tag files.
Instead, you can use incremental updating facility (@samp{-u} option).
@opindex -u
@example

    $ gtags
    $ cd kernel
    $ vi user.c                             # @r{modify user.c}
    ...
    :wq
    $ global -vu                            # @r{-v means verbose}
    [Sat May 29 00:31:41 JST 2010] Gtags started.
     Tag found in '/usr/local/src/linux-2.6.32'.
     Incremental updating.
    [Sat May 29 00:31:43 JST 2010] Updating 'GTAGS' and 'GRTAGS'.
     [1/1] deleting tags of kernel/user.c
     [1/1] extracting tags of kernel/user.c
     Global databases have been modified.
    [Sat May 29 00:31:51 JST 2010] Done.

    $ global -vu                            # @r{try again}
    [Sat May 29 00:33:16 JST 2010] Gtags started.
     Tag found in '/usr/local/src/linux-2.6.32'.
     Incremental updating.
     Global databases are up to date.       # @r{do nothing}
    [Sat May 29 00:33:19 JST 2010] Done.

@end example

@c ***************************************************************************
@c Reference manual.
@c ***************************************************************************
@node Reference
@chapter Command References
@include reference.texi

@c ***************************************************************************
@c FDL
@c ***************************************************************************
@node Copying This Manual
@appendix Copying This Manual

@menu
* GNU Free Documentation License::      License for copying this manual.
@end menu

@include fdl.texi

@c ***************************************************************************
@c Business Model
@c ***************************************************************************
@node Business Model
@appendix Business Model

@menu
* The BOKIN Model Definition:: Business Model for Free Software.
* Frequently Asked Questions:: BOKIN Model Frequently Asked Questions.
@end menu

@include define.texi
@page
@include faq.texi

@node Index
@unnumbered Option Index
@printindex cp
@contents
@bye
